# Installation

Coming soon...

Welcome back. My friends, if you were with me for the first two episodes in our symphony six series, you, we have learned a lot about how symphony works, serious skills around services and configuration that are gonna make everything else to do a lot easier, but our app didn't have a database yet, which is no fun. So that's the goal of this tutorial to add a database to our application and truly make things dynamic, which is just super fun. As we know, symphony gives us a lot of tools. So is do any of those tools include tools to talk at the database? The answer is no. And that's because symphony doesn't have to, because there is another PHP library called doctrine that does doctrine is the industry standard way to talk to the database. And when you're using PHP, it's a fantastically powerful database library. And it's basically best friends with symphony with first class integration. All right. So I want to get into the database stuff. So let's get our project set up.

If you download the course code from this page and on zip, it you'll find a start director with the same code that you see here, pop this readme.md file. This will contain all the instructions you need to get your app running. The last step will be to find open a terminal, move into your project and run symphony serve dash D. This uses the symphony binary to start a local web server, which is just a really handy way to set things up. This will our web server at 1, 2 7 0.001, colon 8,000. If you had there do fine mixed vinyl. The site, we are creating to allow people to create their own mix tapes, but then be super hipster to be super hipster. We'll print them onto vinyl records for you. Our site has a homepage and also a

Oops <affirmative>.

And I'll say a browse page where you can view other people's mixes, but all of this data is hard coded right now. So let's go get doctrine installed, move over to your terminal and run a composer require doctrine. That is of course, a flex alias for a library called symphony slash RM pack. As a reminder, when you install a library, that's a pack. That's actually, it's really just a shortcut to install several libraries at once. So will install a doctrine and a couple other other libraries that make working with doctrine really, really nice. Now notice at the bottom of this, it asks, do you want to include Docker configuration from recipes? So occasionally when you install a library that library's recipe will have Docker configuration that can, for example, start a database container. This is totally optional, but I'm gonna say P for yes. Permanently. We'll talk more about that Docker configuration in a few minutes, but right now let's check out what that did. So I'm gonna run get status and, okay, cool. So we have the normal files like composed at JS composer dot lock and symphony dot lock that it enables it also modified config slash bundles. Do PHP, no surprise there. This installed a new bundle called doctrine bundle

Doctrine, bundle Dr. Bundle as well as another one called doctrine migrations bundle that we'll talk about in a few minutes, probably the most important part of the recipe is that it modified our data. End file. Remember, this is where we can configure environment variables. And this gave us one new environment, variable called database URL, which we set to the type of database and the username password or database connection string. Now that's database underscore URL environment. Variable is read by another file that the recipe just gave us config packages, doctrine, Danielle, most of the configuration in this file, you do not need to think about or change, but notice that there's this URL key, this is what tells doctrine, the URL to your database. And it reads that database URL environment variable. So in a few minutes, we're gonna be playing with this environment variable so that we can get doctrine to talk to our database. The recipe also added a couple of new files and a couple of new directories like migrations source, entity, and source repository. And right now those are all empty, but you'll see how those will be used over the next few minutes.

Okay. So good. First step one here we do now have doctrine installed and doctrine is a library. That's good at talking to databases, but for this to work, we need to first make sure we actually have a database actually running. And a second in the second, our database URL environment, variable needs to be configured to point correctly to that database, including the correct user name and password and port. So let's get, do that next, but with an optional, but delightful twist, we are going to use Docker to start a database for us.
